.\" Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH "install-num-migrate-to-rhsm" "8" "September 5, 2012" "Version 0.3" ""

.SH NAME

install-num-migrate-to-rhsm \- Checks the installation number for a system and installs the required product certificates. This is used for migrating an offline system to Customer Portal Subscription Management. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
install-num-migrate-to-rhsm [--dryrun|--instnum=NUMBER|--help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinstall-num-migrate-to-rhsm\fP migrates a system using legacy Red Hat Enterprise Linux installation numbers to the X.509 certificates used by Customer Portal Subscription Management. 

.PP
While the \fBinstall-num-migrate-to-rhsm\fP script performs the migration operation, the data used to map the channels to the corresponding product certificates is defined in the \fBsubscription-manager-migration-data\fP package. The \fBsubscription-manager-migration-data\fP package must be installed before the \fBinstall-num-migrate-to-rhsm\fP script can be run successfully.

.SH BACKGROUND
Access to support and updates for products is determined through 
.I subscriptions.
Subscriptions are applied to a system, which means that the system has the right to install and update a product with full support. Even disconnected or offline systems still need a way to track the products installed on them and the subscriptions used by them. In the older Red Hat Network Classic model of subscription management, a system was associated with a 
.I channel.
In Customer Portal Subscription Management, installed products and subscriptions are identified through 
.I X.509 certificates.
Either way, a channel or a certificate provides a means of recognizing and tracking the products and subscriptions for a system, even an offline system.

.PP
When Red Hat software is purchased through a vendor, the purchased software is identified in a 
.I installation number 
or
.I subscription number. 
Installation numbers are described more in the Knowledgebase article:
<https://access.redhat.com/kb/docs/DOC-15408>

.PP
This number is located in the 
.B /etc/sysconfig/rhn/install-num
file. The installation number is in essence a code which contains all of the information about the products and versions purchased for the system. For example, this installation number shows that it is valid for RHEL Client and RHEL Workstation channels.
.nf
[root@server ~]# python /usr/lib/python2.4/site-packages/instnum.py da3122afdb7edd23
Product: RHEL Client
Type: Installer Only
Options: Eval FullProd Workstation
Allowed CPU Sockets: Unlimited
Allowed Virtual Instances: Unlimited
Package Repositories: Client Workstation

key: 14299426 "da3122"
checksum: 175 "af"
options: 4416 "Eval FullProd Workstation"
socklimit: -1 "Unlimited"
virtlimit: -1 "Unlimited"
type: 2 "Installer Only"
product: 1 "client"

{"Workstation": "Workstation", "Base": "Client"}
.fi

.PP
For an offline system, one which is not connect to either Red Hat Network Classic (Hosted) or a Satellite system, the installation number can be used to move the subscription configuration from the older channel-based subscription model to certificate-based Customer Portal Subscription Management, managed by Subscription Manager.

.PP
\fBinstall-num-migrate-to-rhsm\fP identifies the channel that a disconnected system is subscribed to and then installs the appropriate product certificates.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Prints the specific help information for the given command.

.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Performs a dry run of the script. This indicates what product certificates 
.I will be 
copied into the 
.B 
/usr/share/rhsm/product
directory, but does not actually install them.

.TP
.B -i NUMBER, --instnum=NUMBER
Migrates the channels and product certificates based on the manually-entered installation number rather than the number in 
.B /etc/sysconfig/rhn/install-num.
This is an advanced option; most migrations will use the standard installation number in the system configuration.

.SH USAGE
To pull in the product certificates and migrate the system, simply run the command:

.nf
[root@server ~]# install-num-migrate-to-rhsm
.fi

.PP
The script installs the product certificates that correspond to the available channels from the installation number. This script does not register the system or apply new subscriptions to the system. For the procedure to register an offline system with Customer Portal Subscription Management and apply entitlements, see the Customer Portal documentation:
<https://access.redhat.com/knowledge/docs/en-US/Red_Hat_Customer_Portal/1/html/Red_Hat_Network_Certificate-based_Subscription_Management/managing-consumers.html#web-consumer-register>

.PP
After migration, the system facts maintained by Subscription Manager display what script was used for migration. 

.nf
[root@server ~]# subscription-manager facts --list | grep migr
migration.migrated_from: install_number
.fi

.PP
Because the \fBinstall-num-migrate-to-rhsm\fP command does not register the system with Certificate-based Red Hat Network, the migration facts do not include a new system ID.


.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/install-num\fP
The 16-character activation key issued by a vendor which contains all of the subscription and product information for the system. This is used during the installation process.

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/systemid\fP
The digital server ID for this machine if the system has been registered with Red Hat Network Classic. 
This file does not exist otherwise.

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date\fP
The common configuration file used by RHN client programs.

.IP \fI/var/log/rhsm/rhsm.log\fP
The Subscription Manager log file. This contains any errors registering the system to Certificate-based Red Hat Network or with applying the system to entitlements.

.IP \fI/etc/rhsm/facts/migration.facts\fP
The file which contains the migration information. This is displayed as one of the system facts by Subscription Manager.

.IP \fBsubscription-manager-migration-data.rpm\fB
The package which contains the mappings for the migration script to migrate channels to the appropriate product certificates.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinstall-num-migrate-to-rhsm\fP(8), \fBsubscription-manager\fP(8).


.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Alex Wood <awood@redhat.com>

.SH BUGS
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 2011 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
