.TH rhsm-compliance-icon 8 "January 31, 2011" "version 1.0" "Subscription Compliance Daemon"  Deon Lackey 
.SH NAME
rhsm-compliance-icon \- Periodically checks installed products against active subscriptions to check for compliance.

.SH SYNOPSIS
rhsm-compliance-icon

.SH DESCRIPTION
Red Hat provides content updates and support by issuing 
.I subscriptions
for its products. These subscriptions are allocated to systems (machines) and apply to the installed software products. 

.PP
On X systems (so, systems with a GUI interface), a compliance daemon runs every 4 hours to check the currently installed software against the allocated subscriptions. If software is installed with expired subscriptions or no available subscription, then the daemon triggers an icon and warning message to display in the start menu bar. 

.PP
.B rhsm-compliance-icon
 only runs on X-based systems. Servers which do not have a GUI interface do not run or require the 
.B rhsm-compliance-icon
daemon.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --check-period
Sets the interval to use between checks for compliance. The value is in seconds.

.TP
.B -f, --force-icon=TYPE
Manually displays the given type of icon in the start menu. The 
.I TYPE
can be 
.I warning
or 
.I expired
and uses a different icon for each type of message.

.TP
.B -d, --debug
Shows debug messages for the daemon.

.SH USAGE
There are two reasons to invoke 
.B rhsm-compliance-icon 
manually:

.IP
* To run the daemon on a new schedule (immediately or with a different frequency)

.IP
* To view the compliance icons or messages regardless of the compliance state of the machine

.PP
Since X runs the daemon automatically and on schedule, it is not necessary normally to run the compliance daemon. Administrators can run it to view any immediate changes to the compliance of the system. For example:
.nf
rhsm-compliance-icon --check-period 120
.fi

.PP
If you just want to know what the different compliance messages look like, then use the 
.B --force-icon
option.

.nf
rhsm-compliance-icon --force-icon=warning

rhsm-compliance-icon --force-icon=expired
.fi

.SH BUGS
This process is part of the subscription management system for Red Hat systems. To file bugs against this process, go to https://bugzilla.redhat.com/ and select Red Hat > Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 > subscription-manager.


.SH AUTHORS
Deon Lackey, <dlackey@redhat.com>, and James Bowes, <jbowes@redhat.com>. rhsm-compliance-icon was written by James Bowes.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2010 Red Hat, Inc. This is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2). A copy of this license is available at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt.
