.TH rhsm-icon 8 "September 5, 2012" "version 1.2" "Subscription Status Daemon"  Deon Lackey 
.SH NAME
rhsm-icon \- Periodically checks installed products against active subscriptions to check their status.

.SH SYNOPSIS
rhsm-icon

.SH DESCRIPTION
Red Hat provides content updates and support by issuing 
.I subscriptions
for its products. These subscriptions are applied to systems (machines) and apply to the installed software products. 

.PP
On graphical X systems (systems with a GUI interface), a product status daemon runs every 4 hours to check the currently installed software against the applied subscriptions. If software is installed without a valid and applied subscription (such as a subscription expires or no subscription is available for the product), then the daemon triggers an icon and warning message to display in the notification area of the menu. 

.PP
.B rhsm-icon
 only runs on graphical (X-based) systems. Servers which do not have a GUI interface do not run or require the 
.B rhsm-icon
daemon.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --check-period
Sets the interval to use between checks for the product subscription status. The value is in seconds.

.TP
.B -f, --force-icon=TYPE
Manually displays the given type of icon in the start menu. The 
.I TYPE
can be 
.I warning
or 
.I expired
and uses a different icon for each type of message.

.TP
.B --i, --check-immediately
Runs the status check process immediately when the command is invoked. Otherwise, there is a four (4) minute delay before running the check.

.TP
.B -d, --debug
Shows debug messages for the daemon.

.SH USAGE
There are two reasons to invoke 
.B rhsm-icon 
manually:

.IP
* To run the daemon on a new schedule (immediately or with a different frequency)

.IP
* To view the status icons or messages regardless of the state of the machine

.PP
Since X runs the daemon automatically and on schedule, it is not necessary to launch the subscription status daemon manually. The 
.B rhsm-icon
command can change this schedule. For example:
.nf
rhsm-icon --check-period 120
.fi

.PP
Administrators can also run 
.B rhsm-icon
to view any immediate changes to the subscription status of the system. Using the 
.B --check-immediately
option runs the check at the time the command is run; otherwise, running 
.B rhsm-icon
has a four-minute delay before running the status check.

.nf
rhsm-icon --check-immediately
.fi

.PP
If you just want to know what the different subscription status messages look like, then use the 
.B --force-icon
option.

.nf
rhsm-icon --force-icon=warning

rhsm-icon --force-icon=expired
.fi

.SH BUGS
This daemon is part of Red Hat Subscription Manager. To file bugs against this daemon, go to https://bugzilla.redhat.com, and select Red Hat > Red Hat Enterprise Linux > subscription-manager.


.SH AUTHORS
Deon Lackey, <dlackey@redhat.com>, and James Bowes, <jbowes@redhat.com>. rhsm-icon was written by James Bowes.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2010 Red Hat, Inc. This is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2). A copy of this license is available at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt.
