.TH RHSM-DEBUG 8 "" "" "RHSM Debug Tool"
.SH NAME
rhsm-debug \- Compiles information about system's entitlements, products, and identity used by Red Hat Subscription Manager.

.SH SYNOPSIS
rhsm-debug
.I module [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rhsm-debug
compiles information about system's entitlements, products, and identity used by Red Hat Subscription Manager.

.PP

.SH COMMANDS AND OPTIONS
.B rhsm-debug
has specific options available for each module, depending on what operation is being performed. The currently supported modules are:

.IP
1. system


.SS COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Prints the specific help information for the given command.

.TP
.B --proxy=PROXY
Uses an HTTP proxy. The
.I PROXY
name has the format
.I hostname:port.


.TP
.B --proxyuser=PROXYUSERNAME
Gives the username to use to authenticate to the HTTP proxy.

.TP
.B --proxypassword=PROXYPASSWORD
Gives the password to use to authenticate to the HTTP proxy.


.SS SYSTEM OPTIONS
The
.B system
command pulls in debug information off of the current system

.TP
.B --destination=DESTINATION
The directory to place the resulting debug data. The default is /tmp.

.TP
.B --no-archive
Generates an uncompressed directory instead of a gzipped file.

.TP
.B --sos
Excludes data files that are also collected by the sosreport tool.

.SH BUGS
This tool is part of Red Hat Subscription Manager. To file bugs against this command-line tool, go to <https://bugzilla.redhat.com>, and select Red Hat > Red Hat Enterprise Linux > subscription-manager.


.SH AUTHORS
William Poteat<wpoteat@redhat.com>. The rhsm-debug tool was written by William Poteat.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. This is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2). A copy of this license is available at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt.
