.TH subscription-manager-gui 8 - - "Subscription Management"
.SH NAME
subscription-manager-gui \- Launches the UI client of the Subscription Manager.

.SH SYNOPSIS
subscription-manager-gui [--register]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B subscription-manager-gui
opens the local client tool to manage subscriptions and installed products on Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems. The same tasks that can be performed by invoking
.B subscription-manager
can be performed in the GUI, including registering systems with a subscription management service, applying and removing subscriptions, and viewing the subscription status of installed products.

.PP
The Subscription Manager UI can also be opened by selecting the
.B Red Hat Subscription Manager
item from the
.B Applications >  System Tools
menu in RHEL 5.x and RHEL 7.x, or the
.B System > Administration
menu in RHEL 6.x.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --register
If a system has not yet been registered, then the GUI registration page can be opened immediately, as the Subscription Manager GUI comes up. This is only relevant for unregistered systems; if this is used after a system is registered, the option is ignored.


.SH REFERENCES
For procedures and tasks that can be performed in the Subscription Manager UI, check the Gnome help files (by pressing <F1>) or refer to the RHEL Subscription Management Guide at <https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Subscription_Management/1/html/RHSM/index.html>.


.SH ASSOCIATED FILES
.IP
* /usr/sbin/subscription-manager-gui
.IP
* /usr/sbin/subscription-manager
.IP
* /etc/rhsm/rhsm.conf

.SH BUGS
This client is part of Red Hat Subscription Manager. To file bugs against this client, go to https://bugzilla.redhat.com, and select Red Hat > Red Hat Enterprise Linux > subscription-manager.


.SH AUTHORS
Deon Lackey, <dlackey@redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Red Hat, Inc. This is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2). A copy of this license is available at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt.
