.TH SYSPURPOSE 8 "" "" "Subscription Management"
.SH NAME
syspurpose \- Set the intended purpose for this system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syspurpose
[\fICOMMAND\fP] [\fIOPTION\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fISyspurpose\fP is a utility for viewing and modifying system purpose
properties.
.PP
The properties (hints) set by \fIsyspurpose\fP are passed to a Red Hat
subscription management entitlement server (Customer Portal or Satellite 6) to
help attach the most appropriate subscriptions to the system automatically. The
entitlement server also reports whether the attached subscriptions match the
specified system purpose. Satisfying system purpose properties depends greatly
on the quantity, availability, and subscription SKU offerings that have been
purchased for the organization that the system is registered to.
.PP
The \fIset\fP, \fIunset\fP, \fIadd\fP, and \fIremove\fP commands modify the
local system purpose, and when possible will report the updated settings to the
Red Hat subscription management entitlement server (Customer Portal or Satellite
6).  The \fIshow\fP command displays the current system purpose.
.PP
The 'syspurpose' command is deprecated and will be removed in a future major release. 
Please use the 'subscription-manager syspurpose' command going forward.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBsyspurpose set-role \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Set the role property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset-role \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Clear the role property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose set-sla \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Set the service level agreement property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset-sla \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Clear the service level agreement property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose set-usage \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Set the system usage property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset-usage \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Clear the system usage property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose add-addons \fIVALUE\fP...\fP
Add values to the addons property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose remove-addons \fIVALUE\fP...\fP
Remove values from the addons property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset-addons \fIVALUE\fP...\fP
Clear set addons property
.TP
\fBsyspurpose show \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Show the current system purpose properties
.SS Generic Commands
The following generic commands can be used as well
.TP
\fBsyspurpose set \fIPROPERTY\fP \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Set the value for a specific property. E.g. \fB"syspurpose set usage foo"\fP is
functionally identical to \fB"syspurpose set-usage foo"\fP.
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset \fIPROPERTY\fP\fP
Clears the value for a specific property. E.g. \fB"syspurpose unset usage"\fP is
functionally identical to \fB"syspurpose unset-usage"\fP.
.TP
\fBsyspurpose add \fIPROPERTY\fP \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Add value(s) to a specific list property. E.g. \fB"syspurpose add addons foo
bar"\fP is identical to \fB"syspurpose add-addons foo bar"\fP.
.TP
\fBsyspurpose remove \fIPROPERTY\fP \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Clear value(s) from a specific list property. E.g. \fBsyspurpose remove addons
foo bar\fP is identical to \fBsyspurpose remove-addons foo bar\fP.
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset \fIPROPERTY\fP \fIVALUE\fP\fP
Clear set addons. E.g. \fBsyspurpose unset addons
foo bar\fP is identical to \fBsyspurpose unset-addons foo bar\fP.

Only "addons" acts as a list property.  The other properties only accept a
single value.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--help\fP
Display a summary of the available commands

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBsyspurpose set-role "RHEL Server"\fP
Indicate that this system should consume a RHEL Server subscription:
.TP
\fBsyspurpose unset-role\fP
Clear a previously set role

.SH BUGS
This tool is part of Red Hat Subscription Manager. To file bugs against this
command-line tool, go to <https://bugzilla.redhat.com>, and select Red Hat > Red
Hat Enterprise Linux > subscription-manager.

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Snyder <csnyder@redhat.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 Red Hat, Inc.
